src/content/docs/workshop/laser-rubber-stamp-internal.mdx, before:

---
title: "How to Host: Rubber Stamp Workshop"
sidebar:
    hidden: true
---


[⬅️ Back to main workshop page](/workshop/laser-rubber-stamp/)

:::note

**Semester**: Spring 2025

**Peer Instructors**: Marcy Bibidakis, Vipisha Pazhanivel, Reyna Samuel

:::

## Materials to Order

| Item | Description | Quantity | Link to Primary | Link To Alternate |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Stamp sheet | sheet to be engraved with designs | 1 pack of 3 | https://www.amazon.com/Sheets-Rubber-Engraving-Machine-Cutter/dp/B09N98WCQH/ | https://www.amazon.com/Artistic-Creations-Engraving-Projects-KUKLIPJIM/dp/B0D2C64N52/ |
| Ink pads (colors) | craft ink pads to use for stamps | 1 pack of 20 | https://www.amazon.com/YPSelected-Inkpad-Fabric-Available-Multi-Colors/dp/B08R377414/ | https://www.amazon.com/Lsushine-Craft-Stamps-Partner-Fabric/dp/B01CKXUCNE/ |
| Ink pads (black) | craft ink pads to use for stamps | 1 pack of 12 | https://www.amazon.com/Jetec-Quality-Rubber-Scrapbooking-Fabric/dp/B0CMCR49WS/ | https://www.amazon.com/MotiMind-Archival-Permanent-Waterproof-Scrapbooking/dp/B0DN6CWCB3/ |

## Notes

Number of Participants: 12
- It was a good amount, though we had three hosts. If it's just one person running it, 10 people might be better

Premise of the workshop
- Participants used Adobe Illustrator to create designs that would be laser cut on rubber mats. The mats were then glued on wood blocks that were cut in the machine shop. The final product was a custom-design rubber stamp that could be used along with the ink pad that we gave to each participant

What went well
- The stamps turned out great! A lot of people got to see how our laser cutters work and got to use machine shop tools, which was great! People also had awesome designs that they found online or had previously designed by themselves.

What would you change
- Try to get through the presentation and design portion as quickly as possible to get people to laser cut earlier in the workshop - that took the longest part and we ended up going a while over time. Maybe get one workshop host to start laser cutting as others are still finishing up the designs.

Commit message:

materials to order list formatting

src/content/docs/workshop/laser-rubber-stamp-internal.mdx, after:

---
title: "How to Host: Rubber Stamp Workshop"
sidebar:
    hidden: true
---


[⬅️ Back to main workshop page](/workshop/laser-rubber-stamp/)

:::note

**Semester**: Spring 2025

**Peer Instructors**: Marcy Bibidakis, Vipisha Pazhanivel, Reyna Samuel

:::

## Premise

Join us for a hands-on "make your own stamp" workshop and bring your creativity and craftsmanship! In this fun and interactive workshop, you'll learn the art of designing and creating custom stamps using our lasercutting and machine shop tools. Whether you’re looking to personalize stationery, enhance your scrapbooking projects, or create unique gift tags, this workshop is perfect for all skill levels. We will guide you through the process, from sketching your design to mastering machine shop techniques. All materials, including wood blocks, tools, and ink pads, will be provided. Bring your ideas to life and take home a one-of-a-kind stamp that’s as unique as you are!


## Logistics

Capacity: 15

Volunteers requested: 1 person with Illustrator experience would be great

## Materials to Order

| Item | Description | Quantity | Links |
|---|---|---|---|
| Stamp sheet | Sheet to be engraved with designs | 1 pack of 3 | [Primary](https://www.amazon.com/Sheets-Rubber-Engraving-Machine-Cutter/dp/B09N98WCQH/), [Alternate](https://www.amazon.com/Artistic-Creations-Engraving-Projects-KUKLIPJIM/dp/B0D2C64N52/) |
| Ink pads (colors) | Craft ink pads to use for stamps | 1 pack of 20 | [Primary](https://www.amazon.com/YPSelected-Inkpad-Fabric-Available-Multi-Colors/dp/B08R377414/), [Altnerative](https://www.amazon.com/Lsushine-Craft-Stamps-Partner-Fabric/dp/B01CKXUCNE/) |
| Ink pads (black) | Craft ink pads to use for stamps | 1 pack of 12 | [Primary](https://www.amazon.com/Jetec-Quality-Rubber-Scrapbooking-Fabric/dp/B0CMCR49WS/), [Alternate](https://www.amazon.com/MotiMind-Archival-Permanent-Waterproof-Scrapbooking/dp/B0DN6CWCB3/) |
| Wood to cut into blocks | Usually available as scrap material at the Hive | - | - |
| Lacquer | Usually in stock | - | - |
| Glue | Usually in stock | - | - |

## Notes

Number of Participants: 12
- It was a good amount, though we had three hosts. If it's just one person running it, 10 people might be better

Premise of the workshop
- Participants used Adobe Illustrator to create designs that would be laser cut on rubber mats. The mats were then glued on wood blocks that were cut in the machine shop. The final product was a custom-design rubber stamp that could be used along with the ink pad that we gave to each participant

What went well
- The stamps turned out great! A lot of people got to see how our laser cutters work and got to use machine shop tools, which was great! People also had awesome designs that they found online or had previously designed by themselves.

What would you change
- Try to get through the presentation and design portion as quickly as possible to get people to laser cut earlier in the workshop - that took the longest part and we ended up going a while over time. Maybe get one workshop host to start laser cutting as others are still finishing up the designs.
