src/content/docs/policies/policies-main.md, before:

---
title: Rules and Policies
tableOfContents: 
    minHeadingLevel: 2
    maxHeadingLevel: 3
---


<style>

.p-item-1 {
    padding-left: 50px; 
}

.p-item-2 {
    padding-left: 80px;
}

.p-item-marker-1 {
    float: left;
    width: 50px;
    justify-content: end;
    display: flex;
    padding-right: 5px;
}

.p-item-marker-2 {
    float: left;
    width: 80px;
    justify-content: end;
    display: flex;
    padding-right: 5px;
}

/*
<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p></p></div>
<p class="p-item-1"></p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p></p></div>
<p class="p-item-2"></p>
*/

</style>

Rules and Policies 

Updated September 13, 2024 

Ratified by The Executive Board and Staff on January 9, 2024 

## Purpose of this Document

This document serves as the official collection of the rules and policies of the Interdisciplinary Design Commons (herein referred to as “The IDC,” “The Hive Makerspace,” “The Hive,” or simply, “the space”) to be adhered to by all who enter the space. These apply in addition to Georgia Tech’s official [legal](https://policylibrary.gatech.edu/legal) and [campus use](https://policylibrary.gatech.edu/campus-use-facilities) policies. This document may be modified at any time at the discretion of The Hive Staff and The Hive Executive Board.  

## 1. Governing Policies

### 1.1. Authorities

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.1.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">The main authorities of the Hive are the Director and Assistant Director. They have the final say on all matters in the space, including matters of policy and disciplinary action. Their authority supersedes this document. </p>


<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.1.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">The Hive Staff includes the Director, Assistant Director, and any number of Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs) and Undergraduate Teaching Assistants (UTAs) employed by the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering. GTAs and UTAs operate under the authority of the Director and the Assistant Director. Staff are not considered Peer Instructors, but they have the same authorities and privileges as well as additional ones as outlined in this document.</p>

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.1.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">The Director and Assistant Director may employ, and determine at their discretion the authority of, Staff in addition to those listed in policy 1.1.2 who are not Peer Instructors.</p>

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.1.4.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">The Executive Board operates under the authority of the Director and Assistant Director and in conjunction with GTAs and UTAs. The board shall consist of a Director of Strategy, a Director of Events, a Director of Outreach, a Director of Communications, and two Directors of Operations, each elected by the pool of active Peer Instructors from the pool of active Peer Instructors in the spring semester to serve a full year term beginning in the late summer or early fall semester. The manner of election shall be determined by Staff, and the election as a whole shall be managed by Staff. Staff may participate in Executive Board activities, such as meetings, but are not part of the board. Executive Board members need not be active Peer Instructors while serving their term but shall have all privileges of an active Peer Instructor. The Director and Assistant Director may, at their discretion, appoint additional members to the board in any existing or new position. Appointed members need not be elected.</p>


### 1.2. This Document

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.2.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    All members of The Hive Staff have the authority to enforce the policies in this document and take disciplinary action for violations of this document at their discretion. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.2.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    The policies in this document are subject to change at the discretion of Staff and the Executive Board. The Executive Board may modify this document but must inform Staff of any such policy changes made. Staff shall be the ultimate authority on policy changes. This document will be maintained by Staff and will remain available to the public. Any changes of significance, as determined at the discretion of Staff and the Executive Board, will be communicated to all PIs and, as necessary, to the public. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.2.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    Staff and the Executive Board may waive policies for specific individuals or situations at their discretion. However, the Executive Board must inform Staff of any such waivers issued by them. Staff shall be the ultimate authority on policy waivers. </p>


### 1.3. Technical Areas

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.3.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    The Hive shall consist of the following technical areas: benchtop electronics, 3D printing, laser cutting, machine shop, crafts, PCB fabrication, and embedded systems. All PIs shall be trained in benchtop electronics, 3D printing, laser cutting, and at least one of the remaining technical areas. </p>

### 1.4. End Users

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.4.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    An end user is defined as any member of the Georgia Tech community (student, faculty, staff, or other affiliate who possesses an active BuzzCard), who enters The Hive Makerspace and is not a Peer Instructor, member of the Executive Board, or member of The Hive Staff. </p>

### 1.5. Peer Instructors (PIs)

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.5.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    PIs are volunteers hired according to the processes set by the Executive Board each fall and spring semester.  </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.5.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    Active Peer Instructors </p>


<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.2.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    PIs are considered active for a specific semester if they are signed up to work six 35-minute shifts per week, actively work those shifts, and remain in good standing at the Hive.  </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.2.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    New active PIs must be trained in 3D printing, laser cutting, and benchtop electronics by the Friday of opening week. They must also be trained in one of the following by the semester class withdrawal deadline: craft, embedded systems, PCB fabrication, machine shop.  </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.2.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    PIs must participate in any events or training/retraining deemed mandatory by the Executive Board. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.2.4.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    PIs must volunteer for at least one event outside of their shift each semester. These events will be communicated by the Executive Board and include workshops, cleaning parties, and other events to be determined. This requirement may also be fulfilled by attendance at a certain number of other events (possibly greater than a single event), such as committee meetings, at the discretion of Staff. What will fulfill a volunteering requirement for a given semester will be communicated by Staff. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.2.5.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    PIs who were active for the spring semester retain active status throughout the summer semester—without the requirement of signing up for and working shifts over the summer—unless they have graduated or otherwise do not plan on being an active PI in the following fall semester. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.2.6.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Active PIs may access the space 24/7, except on rare occasions as determined by Staff and the Executive Board (for example, the Hive may be closed to PIs during specific events held at the space). Staff and the Executive Board reserve the right to revoke this access for specific PIs at any time. </p>


<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.5.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">Hiatus Peer Instructors</p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.3.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    PIs on hiatus are those not signed up to work shifts for a specific semester. The purpose of the hiatus status is to allow active PIs to take one or more semesters off working shifts and return to active status at a later date. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.3.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Hiatus PIs do not have access to the space 24/7 and do not retain any other privileges granted to active PIs, including 3D printing privileges. Hiatus PIs retain only the privileges of end users. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.3.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Hiatus PIs who remain in good standing at the Hive may become active again for an upcoming semester by informing the Executive Board of their intention to return to active status and by fulfilling all requirements of an active PI. Hiatus PIs who return to active status regain 24/7 access and any other privileges granted to active PIs. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.3.4.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    If a PI on hiatus for more than 2 consecutive semesters, not including the summer semester, wishes to return to active status, their return must be approved by the Executive Board and they must recomplete the training requirements of a new PI, including the specialty technical area training. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.3.5.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Any further use of the term PI in this document refers to active PIs, not hiatus PIs. </p>


### 1.6. Master Peer Instructors (MPIs)


<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.6.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    General Policies </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.1.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    MPIs are PIs who specialize in a specific technical area and serve as leaders of their technical area. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.1.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    MPIs must abide by all policies listed section 1.5 (Peer Instructors), except as outlined in this section, 1.6. MPIs are considered active PIs and must follow all policies listed in this document that apply to active PIs, unless a specific exception is made. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.1.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    MPIs may go on hiatus and retain their MPI status upon returning as an active PI unless this hiatus is for more than 2 consecutive semesters, not including summer semester. In the case of an MPI returning to active status after 2 such consecutive semesters, the Executive Board will determine whether MPI status shall be retained upon return to active PI status. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.1.4.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    MPIs may request to change their specialty technical area by informing Staff. Changes will only be allowed if Staff and the MPIs of the technical area being changed to agree the change should be made. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.1.5.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    On rare occasions, an individual may be an MPI for more than one technical area at the same time. Such instances must be approved by Staff and the MPIs of the technical areas in question. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.6.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">MPI Requirements</p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.2.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Failure to meet the following requirements may result in probationary MPI status or loss of MPI status, at the discretion of Staff and the Executive Board. Probationary MPIs are subject to loss of MPI status with any further failures to meet requirements. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.2.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    MPIs are required to work a total of 4 hours per week but are not required to sign up for shifts. These hours are to be referred to as flex hours. They may work these 4 hours at any time during open hours in 30-minute increments. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.2.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    All MPIs must either host (or cohost) a workshop once per semester or be actively working on a space improvement project. Either of these also fulfill the PI event volunteering requirement for a semester. Space improvement projects need not be completed independently and may be worked on during an MPI’s flex hours. The progress of space improvement projects will be monitored by Staff. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.2.4.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    MPIs must participate in training new PIs in their technical area each semester. Hours spent training or planning training can count towards flex hours. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.2.5.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    All MPIs are required to participate in the PI hiring process each semester in a manner determined by the Executive Board. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.6.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    Becoming an MPI </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.3.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Any PI can apply at any time to become an MPI via the appropriate link on the SharePoint.  </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.3.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    MPI applications will be reviewed as they are received by the current MPIs, the Executive Board, and Staff in a 3-tiered process consisting of the current MPIs of the technical area applied to, the overall MPI population, and the Executive Board/Staff. Final application acceptance shall only be issued by Staff. A member of the technical area in question, the Executive Board, or Staff will reach out to the applicant once a decision has been made. Applicants should note that even if they have a strong application, they may not be accepted if the technical area applied to has enough MPIs.  </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.3.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Accepted applicants will officially adopt MPI status, and all associated requirements and responsibilities, on a timeline specified by the current MPIs of the technical area, the Executive Board, and Staff. Applicants in their first semester as a PI cannot officially become an MPI until their second semester as a PI begins. As determined by the Executive Board and Staff, someone who becomes an MPI part-way through a semester may or may not have to complete the requirements listed in section 1.6.2 for that semester. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.3.4.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Certain technical areas may accept MPI applications tentatively but require that applicants complete additional tasks to a satisfactory level before officially being accepted as an MPI and adopting MPI status. Such requirements are regulated by the MPIs of the technical area in question, the Executive Board, and Staff and will be shared with the applicant upon tentative application acceptance. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.3.5.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Anyone may reapply to be an MPI at any time in the future. </p>

## 2. General Policies

## 3. Area Specific Policies


## 4. Peer Instructor Specific Policies

## 5. Infractions and Disciplinary Action


## Further reading

- Read [about how-to guides](https://diataxis.fr/how-to-guides/) in the Diátaxis framework

Commit message:

remove guides and reference pages

src/content/docs/policies/policies-main.md, after:

---
title: Rules and Policies
description: Rules and policies document governing The Hive Makerspace.
tableOfContents: 
    minHeadingLevel: 2
    maxHeadingLevel: 3
---


<style>

.p-item-1 {
    padding-left: 50px; 
}

.p-item-2 {
    padding-left: 80px;
}

.p-item-marker-1 {
    float: left;
    width: 50px;
    justify-content: end;
    display: flex;
    padding-right: 5px;
}

.p-item-marker-2 {
    float: left;
    width: 80px;
    justify-content: end;
    display: flex;
    padding-right: 5px;
}

/*
<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p></p></div>
<p class="p-item-1"></p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p></p></div>
<p class="p-item-2"></p>
*/

</style>

Rules and Policies 

Updated September 13, 2024 

Ratified by The Executive Board and Staff on January 9, 2024 

## Purpose of this Document

This document serves as the official collection of the rules and policies of the Interdisciplinary Design Commons (herein referred to as “The IDC,” “The Hive Makerspace,” “The Hive,” or simply, “the space”) to be adhered to by all who enter the space. These apply in addition to Georgia Tech’s official [legal](https://policylibrary.gatech.edu/legal) and [campus use](https://policylibrary.gatech.edu/campus-use-facilities) policies. This document may be modified at any time at the discretion of The Hive Staff and The Hive Executive Board.  

## 1. Governing Policies

### 1.1. Authorities

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.1.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">The main authorities of the Hive are the Director and Assistant Director. They have the final say on all matters in the space, including matters of policy and disciplinary action. Their authority supersedes this document. </p>


<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.1.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">The Hive Staff includes the Director, Assistant Director, and any number of Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs) and Undergraduate Teaching Assistants (UTAs) employed by the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering. GTAs and UTAs operate under the authority of the Director and the Assistant Director. Staff are not considered Peer Instructors, but they have the same authorities and privileges as well as additional ones as outlined in this document.</p>

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.1.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">The Director and Assistant Director may employ, and determine at their discretion the authority of, Staff in addition to those listed in policy 1.1.2 who are not Peer Instructors.</p>

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.1.4.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">The Executive Board operates under the authority of the Director and Assistant Director and in conjunction with GTAs and UTAs. The board shall consist of a Director of Strategy, a Director of Events, a Director of Outreach, a Director of Communications, and two Directors of Operations, each elected by the pool of active Peer Instructors from the pool of active Peer Instructors in the spring semester to serve a full year term beginning in the late summer or early fall semester. The manner of election shall be determined by Staff, and the election as a whole shall be managed by Staff. Staff may participate in Executive Board activities, such as meetings, but are not part of the board. Executive Board members need not be active Peer Instructors while serving their term but shall have all privileges of an active Peer Instructor. The Director and Assistant Director may, at their discretion, appoint additional members to the board in any existing or new position. Appointed members need not be elected.</p>


### 1.2. This Document

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.2.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    All members of The Hive Staff have the authority to enforce the policies in this document and take disciplinary action for violations of this document at their discretion. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.2.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    The policies in this document are subject to change at the discretion of Staff and the Executive Board. The Executive Board may modify this document but must inform Staff of any such policy changes made. Staff shall be the ultimate authority on policy changes. This document will be maintained by Staff and will remain available to the public. Any changes of significance, as determined at the discretion of Staff and the Executive Board, will be communicated to all PIs and, as necessary, to the public. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.2.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    Staff and the Executive Board may waive policies for specific individuals or situations at their discretion. However, the Executive Board must inform Staff of any such waivers issued by them. Staff shall be the ultimate authority on policy waivers. </p>


### 1.3. Technical Areas

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.3.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    The Hive shall consist of the following technical areas: benchtop electronics, 3D printing, laser cutting, machine shop, crafts, PCB fabrication, and embedded systems. All PIs shall be trained in benchtop electronics, 3D printing, laser cutting, and at least one of the remaining technical areas. </p>

### 1.4. End Users

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.4.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    An end user is defined as any member of the Georgia Tech community (student, faculty, staff, or other affiliate who possesses an active BuzzCard), who enters The Hive Makerspace and is not a Peer Instructor, member of the Executive Board, or member of The Hive Staff. </p>

### 1.5. Peer Instructors (PIs)

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.5.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    PIs are volunteers hired according to the processes set by the Executive Board each fall and spring semester.  </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.5.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    Active Peer Instructors </p>


<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.2.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    PIs are considered active for a specific semester if they are signed up to work six 35-minute shifts per week, actively work those shifts, and remain in good standing at the Hive.  </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.2.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    New active PIs must be trained in 3D printing, laser cutting, and benchtop electronics by the Friday of opening week. They must also be trained in one of the following by the semester class withdrawal deadline: craft, embedded systems, PCB fabrication, machine shop.  </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.2.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    PIs must participate in any events or training/retraining deemed mandatory by the Executive Board. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.2.4.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    PIs must volunteer for at least one event outside of their shift each semester. These events will be communicated by the Executive Board and include workshops, cleaning parties, and other events to be determined. This requirement may also be fulfilled by attendance at a certain number of other events (possibly greater than a single event), such as committee meetings, at the discretion of Staff. What will fulfill a volunteering requirement for a given semester will be communicated by Staff. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.2.5.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    PIs who were active for the spring semester retain active status throughout the summer semester—without the requirement of signing up for and working shifts over the summer—unless they have graduated or otherwise do not plan on being an active PI in the following fall semester. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.2.6.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Active PIs may access the space 24/7, except on rare occasions as determined by Staff and the Executive Board (for example, the Hive may be closed to PIs during specific events held at the space). Staff and the Executive Board reserve the right to revoke this access for specific PIs at any time. </p>


<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.5.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">Hiatus Peer Instructors</p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.3.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    PIs on hiatus are those not signed up to work shifts for a specific semester. The purpose of the hiatus status is to allow active PIs to take one or more semesters off working shifts and return to active status at a later date. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.3.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Hiatus PIs do not have access to the space 24/7 and do not retain any other privileges granted to active PIs, including 3D printing privileges. Hiatus PIs retain only the privileges of end users. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.3.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Hiatus PIs who remain in good standing at the Hive may become active again for an upcoming semester by informing the Executive Board of their intention to return to active status and by fulfilling all requirements of an active PI. Hiatus PIs who return to active status regain 24/7 access and any other privileges granted to active PIs. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.3.4.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    If a PI on hiatus for more than 2 consecutive semesters, not including the summer semester, wishes to return to active status, their return must be approved by the Executive Board and they must recomplete the training requirements of a new PI, including the specialty technical area training. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.5.3.5.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Any further use of the term PI in this document refers to active PIs, not hiatus PIs. </p>


### 1.6. Master Peer Instructors (MPIs)


<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.6.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    General Policies </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.1.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    MPIs are PIs who specialize in a specific technical area and serve as leaders of their technical area. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.1.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    MPIs must abide by all policies listed section 1.5 (Peer Instructors), except as outlined in this section, 1.6. MPIs are considered active PIs and must follow all policies listed in this document that apply to active PIs, unless a specific exception is made. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.1.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    MPIs may go on hiatus and retain their MPI status upon returning as an active PI unless this hiatus is for more than 2 consecutive semesters, not including summer semester. In the case of an MPI returning to active status after 2 such consecutive semesters, the Executive Board will determine whether MPI status shall be retained upon return to active PI status. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.1.4.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    MPIs may request to change their specialty technical area by informing Staff. Changes will only be allowed if Staff and the MPIs of the technical area being changed to agree the change should be made. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.1.5.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    On rare occasions, an individual may be an MPI for more than one technical area at the same time. Such instances must be approved by Staff and the MPIs of the technical areas in question. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.6.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">MPI Requirements</p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.2.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Failure to meet the following requirements may result in probationary MPI status or loss of MPI status, at the discretion of Staff and the Executive Board. Probationary MPIs are subject to loss of MPI status with any further failures to meet requirements. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.2.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    MPIs are required to work a total of 4 hours per week but are not required to sign up for shifts. These hours are to be referred to as flex hours. They may work these 4 hours at any time during open hours in 30-minute increments. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.2.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    All MPIs must either host (or cohost) a workshop once per semester or be actively working on a space improvement project. Either of these also fulfill the PI event volunteering requirement for a semester. Space improvement projects need not be completed independently and may be worked on during an MPI’s flex hours. The progress of space improvement projects will be monitored by Staff. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.2.4.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    MPIs must participate in training new PIs in their technical area each semester. Hours spent training or planning training can count towards flex hours. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.2.5.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    All MPIs are required to participate in the PI hiring process each semester in a manner determined by the Executive Board. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-1"><p>1.6.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-1">    Becoming an MPI </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.3.1.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Any PI can apply at any time to become an MPI via the appropriate link on the SharePoint.  </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.3.2.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    MPI applications will be reviewed as they are received by the current MPIs, the Executive Board, and Staff in a 3-tiered process consisting of the current MPIs of the technical area applied to, the overall MPI population, and the Executive Board/Staff. Final application acceptance shall only be issued by Staff. A member of the technical area in question, the Executive Board, or Staff will reach out to the applicant once a decision has been made. Applicants should note that even if they have a strong application, they may not be accepted if the technical area applied to has enough MPIs.  </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.3.3.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Accepted applicants will officially adopt MPI status, and all associated requirements and responsibilities, on a timeline specified by the current MPIs of the technical area, the Executive Board, and Staff. Applicants in their first semester as a PI cannot officially become an MPI until their second semester as a PI begins. As determined by the Executive Board and Staff, someone who becomes an MPI part-way through a semester may or may not have to complete the requirements listed in section 1.6.2 for that semester. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.3.4.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Certain technical areas may accept MPI applications tentatively but require that applicants complete additional tasks to a satisfactory level before officially being accepted as an MPI and adopting MPI status. Such requirements are regulated by the MPIs of the technical area in question, the Executive Board, and Staff and will be shared with the applicant upon tentative application acceptance. </p>

<div class="p-item-marker-2"><p>1.6.3.5.</p></div>
<p class="p-item-2">    Anyone may reapply to be an MPI at any time in the future. </p>

## 2. General Policies

## 3. Area Specific Policies


## 4. Peer Instructor Specific Policies

## 5. Infractions and Disciplinary Action
